Hi everyone.
Always in the section 14 Python exceptions.
First, let's understand together some keyword uses to try, except an exception in Python.
The first keyword try lets you test the block of code for errors.
The accept block lets you handle the exception.
The else block lets you execute code when there is no exception.
The finally block lets you execute code regardless of the result of the try and accept block.
Finally, it will be executed if there are an exception or not.
Second exception handling.
When an error occurs or exception, as we call it, Python will normally stop and generate an error
message.
This exception can be handled using the try statement.
Here in this example, the try block will generate an exception because x is not defined.
Since the try block raises an error, the accept block will be executed without the try block, the
program will crash and raise an error.
This is the second example.
This statement will raise an error because X is not defined and we don't have a try except block to
catch the error.
Three.
Many exceptions.
You can define as many exception blocks as you want.
If you want to execute a special block of code for a special kind of error.
Here we define two exceptions first name error and after that general exception for any other type of
exception.
The result it will be print one message if the try block raises a name error and another for other errors.
Let's go to PyCharm and execute some examples.
Here the try block will generate an exception because x is not defined.
Let's execute the code and see the result.
The message.
An exception occurred because X is not defined.
The program doesn't crash in the first example.
Let's go to the second example.
Always we print x and x is not defined.
The program crash.
Nameerror name x is not defined.
This is the importance of the try except block.
In the third example we define a specific exception name error and after that a general exception.
Except the first output.
If the type of exception is name error, the result it will be variable x is not defined.
If another exception the output it will be something else went wrong.
But like we see here the execution of the second example.
The type of exception is named error, which means when execute this code, the result it will be variable
x is not defined.
Let's execute the code and see the result.
The output is variable.
X is not defined.
Let's generate another exception and see the result.
For example, we make x equal ten and here we will do a division by zero.
The type of exception is zero division error, which means the block name error will not be executed.
The output will be something else went wrong.
Let's execute the code and see the result.
Something else went wrong.
Why?
Because we define her a specific exception name error, but the try block throw the zero division exception.
Let's continue with the same example and we try to add the exception zero division error and see the
result.
If the type of exception is name error the output it will be variable x is not defined.
If the exception is zero division error the output will be division by zero.
Else another exception.
The output will be something else went wrong here.
In our case the output will be division by zero because the try block throw a zero division error.
Let's execute the code.
Division by zero.
Always with the same example.
Let's change the order of the exception.
We make the general exception in the first line.
This is a syntax error default, except must be last.
If we don't specify a specific exception, which means except can detect any type of exception should
always be the last default, except must be last.
But for example, if we add except exception.
In this case, Python will accept this code, but this is not recommended.
Why?
Because if the try block generate exception, it will be captured in the first block of except which
will be exception And we don't have a specific detail of the origin of the error here.
When we execute the code, we don't have division by zero.
The result it will be something else went wrong.
Let's execute the code.
Something else went wrong.
When we use many exception.
The recommended is to start by the specific exception.
Enter.
We start by the specific exception, and after that we make a general exception to detect any other
type of error.
This is not the purpose of our chapter, but we will talk about many exceptions and what is the recommended
way in the upcoming chapters.
And that's it for this video.